On research, quantum computers, and AI

My professor here draws a line between what he calls "advanced
development" and "research". I'm on the side of advanced
development. It's the kind that takes a long time to become competent
in; its focus is on building something useful with many small bits of
novelty, as opposed to something that's directly useless, but with one
big novel jump. In general, I get the impression that university looks
down on anything "less" than pure research. Quantum computing is a hot
research topic now, but I wouldn't want to work on the problem yet.

Quantum computers are about a decade away. When I say quantum
computers, I actually mean computers with quantum accelerators: pure
quantum computers are useless for general-purpose tasks. Computer
architecture is going to change quite drastically as we reach the
limits of silicon; new materials and fabrication technology is
required. Perhaps carbon. But it definitely involves photonics.

Computer architecture is is also changing at higher levels with
introduction of processor extensions. These are incremental
improvements, and are driven directly by needs: wouldn't qualify as
"research". There are software challenges to adapt to this new
hardware, especially in the field of compilers and operating
systems. Working on software wouldn't be as interesting if hardware
didn't change.

Once quantum accelerators are out, there'll be a lot of
design-from-scratch challenges. Perhaps it'll give us the acceleration
required to perform complex machine learning tasks. The race towards
building a conscious machine continues, but nobody really knows what
that means. "Godel, Escher, Bach" hints that consciousness is simply a
complex enough system of machine learning algorithms. I suspect more
insights into the matter will come from neuroscience.
